---
title: "Returning to the Blogosphere"
date: "2023-12-25"
spoiler: "Using a computer to replace humans is touted as humanity’s next great achievement, but using a computer as a medium to better understand the world is still an afterthought."
---

Using a computer to replace humans is touted as humanity’s next great achievement, but using a computer as a medium to better understand the world is still an afterthought. The influence of online platforms and advanced language models on both large and small communities is profound and multifaceted, yet we are still in the process of fully understanding and quantifying this impact. While some of these impacts have been positive, a growing number of people have noticed that the 'Visionaries' of Silicon Valley seem to accrue most of the rewards. This never seems to bring true technological progress, especially if we define progress as an improvement in the human condition.

This perspective is not unique to me. I find it encouraging to see works like ['Open Knowledge Institutions'](https://mitpress.mit.edu/9780262365161/open-knowledge-institutions/), where the authors propose a transformation of universities into 'open knowledge institutions.' In this vision, universities evolve into hubs where broad communities collaboratively create and share knowledge resources for the greater good. The authors repeatedly emphasize the necessity of evolving communication methods as being key to moving from closed methods for verifying expert knowledge towards 'careful, mediated approaches to sharing it with wider publics'. In this context, software could play a pivotal role. By developing applications that integrate these expert knowledge systems in a user-friendly manner, software can empower the general public to make more informed and effective decisions.
